출처: https://www.aumovio.com/en/solutions/driver-assistance/optical-sensors-and-windshield-cleaning-systems.html
수집일: 2026-09-07

Discover advanced optical sensors and windshield cleaning systems that ensure clear vision and enhanced safety in all driving conditions.
1:21
Driving Vision Forward
From advanced Level 2+ ADAS features to fully autonomous vehicles, AUMOVIO cleaning systems ensures clean and clear vision in every driving scenario. Our modular and innovative cleaning solutions are designed to overcome environmental challenges (dust, rain, snow, and insects), ensuring your optical sensors stay reliable and available when you need them most.
With deep expertise in windshield cleaning technologies and precision nozzle design, we deliver performance you can trust.
At AUMOVIO, we are shaping the future of mobility by making visibility smarter, safer, and more efficient.
Petr Vanicky
Head of Washer Systems
Our distribution components
Reservoirs
AUMOVIO offers modular products and solutions with intelligent applications that increase the safety of drivers by cleaning windshields and cameras/sensors in any weather conditions. The AUMOVIO washer fluid reservoir is available in two technologies: injection or blow molded.
Technical description
Advantages
Blow-molded reservoirs: PE HD material
Injection-molded reservoirs: PP material
Reservoir volume for windshield cleaning: 2.5L to 4.0L
Level sensors in different technologies: reed-switch or 2-pin-sensor
Filler neck: blow molded, injection molded or corrugated
Scalability: various reservoir volumes
Reduction of tooling costs by using a common tooling half
Reduction of logistic cost due to local production partners
Environmentally friendly: weight reduction by thin-walled design
Reduction of components with reservoir pump integration
Pumps
Soiled windshields and/or cameras/sensors are a risk to any driver. AUMOVIO offers modular products and solutions to increase the safety of drivers by cleaning windshield and cameras/sensors in any weather conditions. AUMOVIO is the largest European pump distributor and supplies pumps for various applications.
Technical description
Advantages
Single or double outlet pump
EMC protection according to customer requirements
Pump pressure from 2,0 up to 4,0 bar
Bottom or side water inlet
Customer specific electric interfaces, e.g. AMP, K-jetronic, etc.
Wide-spread portfolio of different pump sizes
Customer specific water inlets: bottom & side inlet
Environmentally friendly by weight reduction e.g. mini HLC pump
Customer specific electric interface
Various applications covered by various pump pressures
Hose lines air & liquid
Soiled windshields or/and cameras/sensors are a risk to any driver. AUMOVIO offers modular products and solutions with intelligent applications that increase the safety of drivers by cleaning windshields cameras/sensors in any weather conditions.
Technical description
Advantages
Corrugated materials: PA (polyamide), PP (polypropylene), PA/PP
Rubber materials: EPDM and TPV
Hoses with various diameters; bigger hose for less pressure lost
Connector clip in different colors to distinguish front and rear hose
2nd generation connector: high temperature tolerance, easy mounting and dismounting with acoustic click-fastening
3rd generation connector: High temperature tolerance, direct connection to the corrugated hose
Hose lines, separately for air and liquid routing
Flexible pipe lengths
Easy connection and release of hoses
Reduced connecting forces
Simultaneous lens cleaning operation
Meets highest temperature & pressure specifications
Cost saving combination of different connector generations
Laser welding - carbon footprint reduction
Our nozzle solutions
Lidar Nozzle air & liquid
Soiled sensors are a risk to any driver. AUMOVIO offers modular products and solutions with intelligent applications that increase the safety of drivers by cleaning flat and round lidars in any weather conditions.
Technical description
Advantages
Cleaning of lidome with pressurized liquid using Coanda effect
Removing of water droplets with pressurized air to ensure the lidar availability and sensitivity even at adverse environment conditions
Using air only to remove dust - saves liquid
Draining function
Long experience with heated nozzles and systems
Nozzle with heating harmonized with camera
Standardized and customized parts
Minimized designed space
Camera nozzle air & liquid
Soiled cameras are a risk to any driver. AUMOVIO offers modular products and solutions with intelligent applications that increase the safety of drivers by cleaning the cameras in any weather conditions.
Technical description
Advantages
Cleaning of lens with pressurized liquid using coanda effect
Removing of water droplets with pressurized air to ensure the camera availability and sensitivity even at adverse environment conditions
Using air only to remove dust - saves liquid
Draining function
Long experience with heated nozzles and systems
Nozzle with heating harmonized with camera
Standardized and customized parts
Minimized designed space
Windshield cleaning nozzles liquid
The AUMOVIO windscreen washer nozzles are part of the reliable washer system that increases driver’s safety by clean windows in any weather conditions. Windscreen cleaning nozzles can be provided in different technologies: front nozzle, rear window nozzle, heated/unheated technology.
Technical description
Advantages
Nozzle technologies: ball, fluidic, multi-spray and laser-drilled nozzle
Water consumption reduction of max 40% with fluidic versus ball nozzle
Same housing design for different equipped models (with or without heater or check valve)
Integrated check valve for short response time
Self-regulating heater with Positive Temperature Coefficient (PTC)
Fluidic nozzles with different spray patterns due to geometry change of fluidic insert
Nozzles combinable with different sealing
Long experience with heated nozzles and systems
Nozzle with heating harmonized with camera
Standardized and customized parts
Minimized designed space
Wet arm system liquid
The wiper arm cleaning nozzle system from AUMOVIO enables to supply the cleaning liquid directly in front of the wiper blade during the wipe cycle. This measure allows the best utilization of cleaning liquid and can reduce the water consumption compared to conventional nozzles up to 50 percent with better cleaning results and no visual disturbing of the driver while spraying.
Technical description
Advantages
Nozzle technologies: ball joint nozzle (adjustable jet) / fluidic insert
Heated with heater wire incl. check valve and hose system or unheated
Nozzles positioned behind wiper blade in slipstream
Jet is independent of airflow or speed
High flexible resistance wire to cope with bending cycle
Integrated check valve for short response time
Combined connector for electrical and hydraulic interface
Efficient cleaning, nearly invisible cleaning due to spray directly along the wiper blade
No disturbing of sight during cleaning process
Easy to adapt on different wiper arms
Reduced assembly time at OEM
No hose routing along the bonnet over the hinge necessary
Spray time can be adjusted acc. to wipe angle
Less overspray over the top of the windscreen
